README.md, before:

pygreeks: black-scholes greeks in python
----------------------------------------

pygreeks implements black-scholes in python using either exact derivatives from `pytorch` autograd or
a two step numerical approximation.


Here's the exact figures using [derivatives](https://docs.fincad.com/support/developerfunc/mathref/greeks.htm):
```haskell
>>> pygreeks.optionGreeksAuto(pygreeks.Option("put", underlying=70.00, underlying_iv=0.90, strike=30.00, expiry=(820 / 365)))
Option(kind='put', underlying=70.0, underlying_iv=0.9, strike=30.0, expiry=2.2465753424657535, iv=0.8999999950626361, npv=8.27951431274414, greeks=Greeks(theta=-0.008868245407938957, delta=-0.09199449419975281, gamma=0.001747919013723731, vega=0.17317327857017517))
```

Here's approximate figures using [two step numerical approximation](https://github.com/vollib/lets_be_rational) (notice it's basically the same, but it still uses autograd for npv):
```haskell
>>> pygreeks.optionGreeksFast(pygreeks.Option("put", underlying=70.00, underlying_iv=0.90, strike=30.00, expiry=(820 / 365)))
Option(kind='put', underlying=70.0, underlying_iv=0.9, strike=30.0, expiry=2.2465753424657535, iv=0.8999999950626361, npv=8.27951431274414, greeks=Greeks(theta=-0.00887432080828571, delta=-0.09199451682418325, gamma=0.0017479191393343068, vega=0.17317329292221154))
```

The approximate version runs about 3.5x faster than the pytorch version too.

## Usage

```python
import pygreeks
```

Define an option using `pygreeks.Option()` with parameters described in the examples above, then run one or more of:

- `pygreeks.optionGreeksAuto(option)` for autograd greeks
- `pygreeks.optionGreeksFast(option)` for numerical approximation greeks


## License
`pytorch` implementation adapted from https://github.com/mgroncki/IPythonScripts/blob/master/PricingPyTorch/PlainVanillaAndBarriersCPU.ipynb (BSD)

numeric approximation is via [py_vollib](https://github.com/vollib/py_vollib) (MIT)

Any other features or improvements made available under Apache-2.0

Commit message:

Release version with updated README
The original release didn't properly expose the conceptual underpinnings
of iv vs npv discovery, but those are both broken out into individual
use cases now, in addition to always returning the bulk of useful greeks
too.

The Fast mode can run IV discovery and all greeks for 1,000 strikes in
400ms.

The Auto mode runs the same in ~18 seconds.

(but note: sometimes the Fast mode ends up running partial Auto mode
calculations behind the scenes when default Fast operations fail, so the
runtime can be somewhat variable depending on how well formed the input
aligns to the expected bounds of options data for py_vollib)

README.md, after:

pygreeks: black-scholes greeks in python
----------------------------------------

pygreeks implements black-scholes and IV discovery in python using either exact
derivatives from `pytorch` autograd or a fast numerical approximation.


pygreeks operates in one of two modes:

- you provide the strike, put/call, underlying, expiration then one of:
    - `iv`
    - `npv`

If you provide `npv` (usually the current option bid/ask midpoint is a safe bet if bids exist), then `iv` will be calculated for the strike at current expiration + iv + underlying.

If you provide `iv`, then `npv` will be calculated for the current expiration + iv + underlying.

Here's exact figures using [derivatives](https://web.archive.org/web/20200110122246/http://docs.fincad.com/support/developerfunc/mathref/greeks.htm) to get the `iv` and all first order greeks for a current price:
```haskell
>>> pygreeks.optionGreeksAuto(pygreeks.Option(kind='call', underlying=48, strike=49, expiry=(2/365), npv=0.55))
Option(kind='call', underlying=48, strike=49, expiry=0.005479452054794521, iv=0.6766163408740353, npv=0.5499992370605469, greeks=Greeks(theta=-0.22239099442958832, delta=0.34953978657722473, gamma=0.1539958268404007, vega=0.013154408894479275))
```

Here's approximate figures using [two step numerical approximation](https://github.com/vollib/lets_be_rational):
```haskell
>>> pygreeks.optionGreeksFast(pygreeks.Option(kind='call', underlying=48, strike=49, expiry=(2/365), npv=0.55))
Option(kind='call', underlying=48, strike=49, expiry=0.005479452054794521, iv=0.6766160239953531, npv=0.5499992370605469, greeks=Greeks(theta=-0.22254317168663496, delta=0.3495396503168968, gamma=0.15399597226320086, vega=0.01315440614997891))
```

The approximate (`Fast`) version runs about 40x faster than the pytorch version for IV calculations.

## Usage

```python
import pygreeks
```

Define an option using `pygreeks.Option()` with parameters described in the examples above, then run one or more of:

- `pygreeks.optionGreeksAuto(option)` for autograd greeks and IV
- `pygreeks.optionGreeksFast(option)` for numerical approximation greeks and IV (but may fall back to autograd IV if the approximation IV fails to converge)


## License
`pytorch` implementation adapted from https://github.com/mgroncki/IPythonScripts/blob/master/PricingPyTorch/PlainVanillaAndBarriersCPU.ipynb (BSD)

numeric approximation is via [py_vollib](https://github.com/vollib/py_vollib) (MIT)

Any other features or improvements made available under Apache-2.0
